samples/basic/attack/README.md, before:

# Attacking enclave memory

This sample demonstrates how memory contents can be easily read when running
in regular Docker but are protected in hardware enclaves.

## Docker (no enclave)

Build the Docker image and run the `read_secret` program in the container:
```sh
docker build -t attackme .
docker run --rm attackme /read_secret
# Ready to be attacked...
```

In a separate terminal, run:
```sh
./read_memory.sh read_secret Secret42!
# Saving memory image of process 25465...
# Searching memory for string "Secret42!" in "mem.dump.25465"...
# Secret42!
# Secret42!
# Match found.
```

We were able to read the secret because the memory is unprotected.

## SGX-LKL (hardware enclave)

Build the SGX-LKL rootfs disk image and run the `read_secret` program inside an enclave:
```sh
sgx-lkl-disk create --docker=attackme --size 5M --encrypt --key-file rootfs.img
SGXLKL_HD_KEY=rootfs.img.key sgx-lkl-run-oe --hw-debug rootfs.img /read_secret
```

In a separate terminal, run:
```sh
./read_memory.sh sgx-lkl-run-oe Secret42!
# Saving memory image of process 28272...
# Searching memory for string "Secret42!" in "mem.dump.28272"...
# No match found.
```

We were not able to read the secret because the memory is protected.

Note: You can repeat the experiment and run SGX-LKL with an unprotected
simulation/software enclave with `--sw-debug` and you will be able to
read the secret. Only hardware enclaves provide protection here.

Commit message:

wait for key press to exit

samples/basic/attack/README.md, after:

# Attacking enclave memory

This sample demonstrates how memory contents can be easily read when running
in regular Docker but are protected in hardware enclaves.

## Docker (no enclave)

Build the Docker image and run the `read_secret` program in the container:
```sh
docker build -t attackme .
docker run --rm -it attackme /read_secret
# Ready to be attacked...
# Press any key to exit
```

In a separate terminal, run:
```sh
./read_memory.sh read_secret Secret42!
# Saving memory image of process 25465...
# Searching memory for string "Secret42!" in "mem.dump.25465"...
# Secret42!
# Secret42!
# Match found.
```

We were able to read the secret because the memory is unprotected.

## SGX-LKL (hardware enclave)

Build the SGX-LKL rootfs disk image and run the `read_secret` program inside an enclave:
```sh
sgx-lkl-disk create --docker=attackme --size 5M --encrypt --key-file rootfs.img
SGXLKL_HD_KEY=rootfs.img.key sgx-lkl-run-oe --hw-debug rootfs.img /read_secret
# Ready to be attacked...
# Press any key to exit
```

In a separate terminal, run:
```sh
./read_memory.sh sgx-lkl-run-oe Secret42!
# Saving memory image of process 28272...
# Searching memory for string "Secret42!" in "mem.dump.28272"...
# No match found.
```

We were not able to read the secret because the memory is protected.

Note: You can repeat the experiment and run SGX-LKL with an unprotected
simulation/software enclave with `--sw-debug` and you will be able to
read the secret. Only hardware enclaves provide protection here.
