tests/basic/pthread_detach/README.md, before:

## switch_to_host_task to __switch call graph
```
switch_to_host_task(task: task_struct)
    - task.ti.tid = lthread_self()
    - wake_up_process(task)
|
|
V
thread_sched_jb()
    - current.ti.flags = TIF_SCHED_JB
    - current.state = TASK_UNINTERRUPTIBLE
(jump to scheduler)
|
|
V
schedule
|
V
__schedule(preempt: bool)
    - prev = rq->current
    - next = pick_next_task()
|
|
V
context_switch(rq, prev, next)
|
V
__switch_to(prev, next)
    - set abs_prev
    - change cpu ownership to next
    - Wake lthread backing _next
    - If prev has TIF_SCHED_JB flag set, long jump back.
    Else, go to sleep
    - Handle if task has exited and yielded to the scheduler.
        - Calls LKL host op for thread_exit. 
    - return abs_prev
```

## thread_sched_jb
`thread_sched_jb` is LKL's way of doing co-operative multitasking, by yielding to the scheduler. Its invoked from - 

1. `lkl_cpu_put`: If the Linux scheduler run queue has >= 1 tasks.
2. `switch_to_host_task(task)`: If `current` process context != task.
3. `lkl_syscall`: If syscall is NR_REBOOT, yields to scheduler after running the syscall.

Commit message:

doc switch_to_host_task and __switch_to interactions

tests/basic/pthread_detach/README.md, after:

# Important LKL functions related to process scheduling

## switch_to_host_task to __switch call graph
```
switch_to_host_task(task: task_struct)
    - task.ti.tid = lthread_self()
    - wake_up_process(task)
|
|
V
thread_sched_jb()
    - current.ti.flags = TIF_SCHED_JB
    - current.state = TASK_UNINTERRUPTIBLE
(jump to scheduler)
|
|
V
schedule
|
V
__schedule(preempt: bool)
    - prev = rq->current
    - next = pick_next_task()
|
|
V
context_switch(rq, prev, next)
|
V
__switch_to(prev, next)
    - set abs_prev
    - change cpu ownership to next
    - Wake lthread backing _next
    - As prev has TIF_SCHED_JB flag set, long jump back.
|
V
(back in threads_sched_jb)
|
V
back in switch_to_host_task(task)
    - sem down on task's scheduler semaphore
    (This will be woken up when this task is picked up by the LKL scheduler)
    - schedule_tail(abs_prev)
```

## thread_sched_jb
`thread_sched_jb` is LKL's way of doing co-operative multitasking, by yielding to the scheduler. Its invoked from - 

1. `lkl_cpu_put`: If the Linux scheduler run queue has >= 1 tasks.
2. `switch_to_host_task(task)`: If `current` process context != task.
3. `lkl_syscall`: If syscall is NR_REBOOT, yields to scheduler after running the syscall.

# Pthreads support

## pthread_create
